.TH printf 3 "02.12.2023"

.SH NAME
printf - Formatted Output Function

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
int printf(const char *format, ...);

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B printf
function is used for formatted output to the standard output stream. It allows you to construct strings with dynamic content by using format specifiers in the format string.

.SH FORMAT OF THE FORMAT STRING
The format string can contain ordinary characters (not %) that are copied unchanged to the output, as well as conversion specifiers, each of which is associated with additional arguments.

.TP
The supported format specifiers are:
.B %c
- Prints a single character. The argument is converted to an unsigned char.
.br
.B %s
- Prints a string. The argument is a pointer to an array of characters (a string). Characters from the array are written up to (but not including) the null terminator ('\0').
.br
.B %d
- Prints a decimal integer. The argument is converted to signed decimal notation.
.br
.B %i
- Prints an integer. Similar to %d.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion, the
.B printf
function returns the number of characters printed (excluding the null byte used to end output to strings). If an output error is encountered, a negative value is returned.

.SH EXAMPLE
Consider the following code:
.B
.PP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
int main() {
    int num = 42;
        printf("The answer is %d\n", num);
	    return 0;
	    }
	    .fi
	    .PP
	    This will output:
	    .B
	    .PP
	    .nf
	    The answer is 42
	    .fi

.SH SEE ALSO
fprintf(3):The formatted output function for files.
sprintf(3):The formatted output function for strings (similar to printf but writes to a string).
snprintf(3):The formatted output function for a limited buffer.

.SH BUGS
This simplified version does not handle certain features present in the standard C library printf, such as precision and field width.

.SH NOTES
Use this function responsibly and be aware of potential format string vulnerabilities if the format string is not controlled by trusted sources.

.SH AUTHORS
SEYMUR HUSEYNZADE.
ILAHE HEYBETOVA.